Classification: Internal

Classification: Internal

Document No: <CLIENTNAME>-ORG-IMS-POL-026 Page 6 of 10



INTRODUCTION

This Information Risk Management Policy (“Policy”) is a key component of <CLIENTNAME>’s overall Integrated Management System (IMS) and overarches the detailed risk management framework and procedure. Adherence to this Policy will help protect <CLIENTNAME> against known and unknown information security risks, whether internal or external, deliberate or accidental.

<CLIENTNAME> recognizes that effective identification and management of risk is mandatory to the functioning of a robust Integrated Management System (IMS) comprising of Information Security Management System (ISMS), IT Service Management System (ITSMS), Business Continuity Management System (BCMS) and Privacy Information Management System (PIMS).

This Policy will be reviewed at least annually or following any changes to contributing internal or external factors.

PURPOSE

The purpose of this Policy is to ensure that information risks in the organization are identified, assessed, evaluated, monitored, reported and treated according to the business, security, privacy and continuity requirements and objectives of the organization.

Further, the Policy establishes a commitment to comply with applicable sections of the federal laws and regulations, including but not limited to UAE Information Assurance Regulation (UAE IAR) and ISO 27001.

The following are the key objectives of this Policy:

Establish an Information Risk Management Framework: Establishment of an organization-wide Information Security Risk Management Framework.

Address Information Security (IS) risks:  Identification, analysis and evaluation of organizations IS risks to select appropriate IS risk treatment options.

SCOPE

This Policy encompasses all system components that are owned, leased, rented, operated, maintained, and otherwise controlled by <CLIENTNAME> or a third-party on behalf of <CLIENTNAME>, and also applies to any system or system components, both internally and externally, that interact with these systems.

This Policy applies to all employees and contractors who access or manage information and information assets or use the organization's information and communications technology (ICT) systems.


Any exceptions on the applicability of this Policy should be formally requested through the Policy Exception Management procedure. 



POLICY STATEMENT

<CLIENTNAME> shall implement an information risk management program that shall require conducting risk assessments, identifying information risks, treating the risks and continuously monitoring risks by evaluating the effectiveness of information security controls to ensure efficient risk handling. 

POLICY DETAILS

Information Risk Management Framework

<CLIENTNAME> shall define an Information Risk Management (IRM) framework that provides a process to integrate security, privacy, and business continuity risk management activities into business processes.

The IRM framework shall consider business objectives and constraints placed by applicable laws, directives, executive orders, policies, standards, or regulations.

<CLIENTNAME>’s IRM framework shall include the following activities at a minimum:

Prepare: Establish context by understanding mission, business objectives, and information systems to manage <CLIENTNAME>, its security, privacy, and business continuity risks.

Identify: Provide a structured way to determine the criticality of the information assets at <CLIENTNAME>, and identify its associated risks.

Assess: Analyze, evaluate and categorize risks based on its likelihood of materializing and its impacts to <CLIENTNAME>’s business and information systems.

Select: Select, tailor and document the controls necessary to protect <CLIENTNAME> and its information systems commensurate with risks.

Implement: Establish new or utilize existing processes, procedures, tools and technologies to meet the intent of selected controls.

Review: Determine whether the selected controls are implemented correctly, operate as intended, and produce the desired outcomes to meet <CLIENTNAME>’s information security and data privacy requirements.

Monitor: Maintain ongoing situational awareness about the security and privacy posture of <CLIENTNAME> and its information systems to support risk management decisions.

The IRM framework shall establish and implement a plan for communicating risk information and consulting key stakeholders, including decision-makers within the organization during all stages of the risk management process.

Information Risk Assessment

<CLIENTNAME> shall establish a risk assessment process to be used as the basis for the identification, definition and prioritization of risks.

The risk assessment process shall include at a minimum:

Identification of the vulnerabilities that exist in the information assets.



Identification of threats that may exploit a vulnerability.

Qualitative analysis and evaluation of the impact to the confidentiality, integrity, availability, secrecy and privacy of information assets if a threat exploits vulnerabilities.

Identification and definition of measures and/or controls used to protect the confidentiality, integrity, availability, secrecy and privacy of information assets.

The risk assessment shall be performed/updated when environmental, operational or technical changes arise that impact <CLIENTNAME>’s business processes and information assets. Such changes include but are not limited to:

New threats or risks with respect to the business processes and information assets.

An information security incident.

Outcomes of any internal or external assessments.

Changes to information security requirements or responsibilities. (e.g., new federal or state law or regulation, new or modified security controls implemented, etc.).

Changes to the <CLIENTNAME>’s organizational or technical infrastructure that impact information assets (e.g., addition of a new network, new hardware/software standard implemented, new method of creating, receiving, maintaining or transmitting data, etc.).

Information Risk Categorization

<CLIENTNAME> shall categorize risks based on business objectives, data sensitivity, threat exposure and vulnerabilities pursuant to information assets.

The categorization process shall take into account the probability and impact of risks materializing and affecting business objectives.

Risks shall be expressed qualitatively as per the risk categorizations defined under the Information Risk Management Framework.

Adequate resources to address risks shall be allocated according to the risk categorization.

Information Risk Treatment

<CLIENTNAME> shall select and implement risk treatment measures to reasonably protect the confidentiality, integrity, availability, secrecy and privacy of information assets. One or more of the following methods shall be used to manage risk:

Risk Reduction: Reducing risk by applying security controls.

Risk Avoidance: Avoiding the activity or condition causing the risk.

Risk Transfer: Transferring the risk to another party.

Risk Retention: Accepting the risk based on the organization’s risk acceptance criteria established in the Information Security Risk Management Framework.

<CLIENTNAME> shall document a risk treatment plan to outline the approach to be used to treat the risks. Such risk treatment plans shall include at a minimum:



Description of information risks.

Appropriate management actions.

Responsibilities and priorities for managing information security risks (risk ownership).

Target dates for implementation of the identified controls.

Risk treatment plans shall be monitored and reviewed periodically as deemed necessary to ensure that risk is managed on a continuous basis.

Selection of Controls

<CLIENTNAME> shall select and implement appropriate controls to mitigate identified risks based on relevance, nature, feasibility and cost effectiveness of the controls.

Under the <CLIENTNAME> Integrated Management System (IMS), controls shall be selected from the list of following standards/frameworks/regulations, inclusive of but not limited to:

ISO 27001.

ISO 27701.

ISO 22301.

UAE Information Assurance (IA) Regulation.

Information Risk Monitoring

<CLIENTNAME> shall continuously review and monitor outcomes of risk assessment and treatment. The monitoring processes shall evaluate:

The effectiveness of security controls.

Changes to information assets and environments of operations.

Compliance with federal and state laws and regulations and applicable standards.



ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

7. POLICY ENFORCEMENT AND EXCEPTIONS

All employees and contractors are responsible for understanding and adhering to this Policy. Any violation of this Policy shall be reported to Policy Owner. Violation of this Policy shall be subjected to disciplinary action by the <CLIENTNAME>'s Human Capital Department, taking into consideration the recommendation of IS Team and in accordance with other applicable policies, laws and regulations.

Disciplinary action may range from a verbal warning to discontinuation of access to facility or services, or termination of employment/contract/agreement, and possible legal action. The actual action taken shall depend on factors such as the seriousness of the breach and the user's disciplinary record.

Any exceptions on the applicability of this Policy should be formally requested through the Policy Exception Management procedure.

MONITORING AND REVIEW

This Policy is developed by <CLIENTNAME> Information Security (IS) Team, owned and reviewed by the CISO. It is approved by the CEO. 

<CLIENTNAME> IS Team shall initiate a review of this Policy annually or whenever a significant change occurs in the organization's operating environment.

Feedback, suggestions or questions regarding the Policy shall be directed to the <CLIENTNAME> IS Team at infosec@<clientname>.net.

POLICY - UAE IA Control Mapping

